##
##  OSSP uuid - Universally Unique Identifier
##  Copyright (c) 2004 Ralf S. Engelschall <rse@engelschall.com>
##  Copyright (c) 2004 The OSSP Project <http://www.ossp.org/>
##
##  This file is part of OSSP uuid, a library for the generation
##  of UUIDs which can found at http://www.ossp.org/pkg/lib/uuid/
##
##  Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for
##  any purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that
##  the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all
##  copies.
##
##  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED
##  WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
##  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
##  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND THEIR
##  CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
##  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
##  LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
##  USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
##  ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
##  OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
##  OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
##  SUCH DAMAGE.
##
##  uuid_cli.pod: manual page
##

=pod

=head1 NAME

B<OSSP uuid> - B<Universally Unique Identifier Command-Line Tool>

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<uuid>
[B<-v> I<version>]
[B<-n> I<count>]
[B<-1>]
[B<-r>]
[B<-o> I<filename>]
[I<namespace> I<name>]

B<uuid>
B<-d>
[B<-r>]
[B<-o> I<filename>]
[I<uuid>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<OSSP uuid> is a ISO-C application programming interface (API) and
corresponding command line interface (CLI) for the generation of DCE
1.1 and ISO/IEC 11578:1996 compliant I<Universally Unique Identifiers>
(UUID). It supports DCE 1.1 variant UUIDs of version 1 (time and node
based), version 3 (name based) and version 4 (random number based).

This is the command line interface (CLI). For a brief overview of UUIDs
see the documentation of the application programming interface (API) in
uuid(3).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 3

=item B<-v> I<version>

Sets the version of the generated DCE 1.1 variant UUID.
Supported are I<version> "C<1>", "C<3>" and "C<4>".
The default is "C<1>".

=item B<-n> I<count>

Generate I<count> UUIDs instead of just a single one (the default).

=item B<-1>

If option B<-n> is used with a I<count> greater than C<1>, then this
option can enforce the reset the UUID context for each generated UUID.
This makes no difference for I<version> C<3> and C<4> UUIDs. But
version C<1> UUIDs are based on the previously generated UUID which is
remembered in the UUID context of the API. Option B<-1> deletes the
remembered UUID on each iteration.

=item B<-r>

Output the generated UUID in 128 bit (network byte order) raw binary
representation format. The default is to output the generated UUID in
the standardized ASCII string representation.

=item B<-o> I<filename>

Write output to I<filename> instead of to F<stdout>.

=item B<-d>

Decode a given UUID (either on F<stdin> or as an argument on the command
line) and dump textual information about the UUID.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

 # generate DCE 1.1 variant UUID of version 1 (time and node based)
 $ uuid -v1
 1430fcde-43a9-11d8-8000-0090272ff725

 # generate DCE 1.1 variant UUID of version 3 (name based)
 $ uuid -v3 URL http://www.ossp.org/
 02d9e6d5-9467-382e-8f9b-9300a64ac3cd
 
 # generate DCE 1.1 variant UUID of version 4 (random data based)
 $ ./uuid -v4                         
 eb424026-6f54-4ef8-a4d0-bb658a1fc6cf

=head1 SEE ALSO

uuid(3).

=cut

